README.adoc, before:

:hivemq-link: http://www.hivemq.com
:influxdb-link: https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/influxdb/
:hivemq-support: http://www.hivemq.com/support/
:docker: https://www.docker.com/
:influxdb-docker: https://hub.docker.com/_/influxdb/

== InfluxDB Monitoring Extension for HiveMQ

*Extension Type:* Monitoring

*Version:* 4.0.0

*License:* Apache License 2.0

=== Purpose

The HiveMQ {influxdb-link}[InfluxDB^] Extension can be leveraged to gather metrics from {hivemq-link}[HiveMQ^] and persist them into a time series database. This database can be used as the data source for a monitoring dashboard (like Grafana) that drills down into the inner workings of HiveMQ and provides valuable insights to your operations team.

=== Installation
Installing the extension for HiveMQ is very easy:

. Unzip the downloaded zip file
. In the folder `hivemq-influxdb-extension`, modify the `influxdb.properties` file to fit your needs. Check that the mandatory properties (host, port) are set
. Copy the folder `hivemq-influxdb-extension` to your `[HIVEMQ_HOME]/extensions` folder
. Done


=== Configuration
The InfluxDB Monitoring extension uses its own configuration file `influxdb.properties`. The extension won't start if this file is missing or the required properties are not set.

==== General Configuration

|===
| Config name | Required | Description | Default

| mode | no | The mode configured for the InfluxDB sender. Possibilities are: http, tcp, udp | http
| host | yes | The host name of the InfluxDB instance. | -
| port | yes | The port number the InfluxDB instance is listening. | 8086
| protocol | no | The protocol the InfluxDB sender uses in http mode. | http
| auth | no | The authorization string to be used to connect to InfluxDB, of format username:password. | -
| prefix | no | The measurement prefix. | -
| database | no | The database name. | hivemq
| reportingInterval | no | The reporting interval in seconds. | 1
| connectTimeout | no | The connect and read timeout in seconds. | 5000
| tags | no | The tags for each metric. Listed as a semicolon ( `;` ) separated list. | -

|===


.Example Configuration
[source]
----
mode:http
host:localhost
port:8086
protocol:http
auth:

prefix:
database:hivemq

reportingInterval:1
connectTimeout:5000

tags:host=hivemq1
----

=== First Steps

==== Quick Start InfluxDB
If you don't already have an InfluxDB instance set up, here is a instruction how to start a not configured InfluxDB instance with Docker.

. Download and install {docker}[Docker^] for your platform
. Start an InfluxDB docker container with the command `docker run -p 8086:8086 -v $PWD:/var/lib/influxdb influxdb`. For more information about using InfluxDB with Docker visit the {influxdb-docker}[official Docker repository^] for InfluxDB
. A local instance of InfluxDB should be running with the port for the database set to 8086
. Create a database that matches the name set in the property `database` in `influxdb.properties`. For the default `database` value use the command `curl -G http://localhost:8086/query --data-urlencode "q=CREATE DATABASE hivemq"`
. Done

==== Usage
After the extension is installed and an InfluxDB instance exists.

. Start HiveMQ
. Extension successfully started if configuration file exists and contains required properties

==== Need help?

If you encounter any problems, we are happy to help. The best place to get in contact is our {hivemq-support}[support^].

= Contributing

If you want to contribute to HiveMQ InfluxDB Extension, see the link:CONTRIBUTING.md[contribution guidelines].

= License

HiveMQ InfluxDB Extension is licensed under the `APACHE LICENSE, VERSION 2.0`. A copy of the license can be found link:LICENSE.txt[here].

Commit message:

Add Support for InfluxDB Cloud 2 (#4)
* add support for influxdb cloud
* version to 4.1.0

README.adoc, after:

:hivemq-link: http://www.hivemq.com
:influxdb-link: https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/influxdb/
:hivemq-support: http://www.hivemq.com/support/
:docker: https://www.docker.com/
:influxdb-docker: https://hub.docker.com/_/influxdb/

== InfluxDB Monitoring Extension for HiveMQ

*Extension Type:* Monitoring

*Version:* 4.1.0

*License:* Apache License 2.0

=== Purpose

The HiveMQ {influxdb-link}[InfluxDB^] Extension can be leveraged to gather metrics from {hivemq-link}[HiveMQ^] and persist them into a time series database. This database can be used as the data source for a monitoring dashboard (like Grafana) that drills down into the inner workings of HiveMQ and provides valuable insights to your operations team.

=== Installation
Installing the extension for HiveMQ is very easy:

. Unzip the downloaded zip file
. In the folder `hivemq-influxdb-extension`, modify the `influxdb.properties` file to fit your needs. Check that the mandatory properties (host, port) are set
. Copy the folder `hivemq-influxdb-extension` to your `[HIVEMQ_HOME]/extensions` folder
. Done


=== Configuration
The InfluxDB Monitoring extension uses its own configuration file `influxdb.properties`. The extension won't start if this file is missing or the required properties are not set.

==== General Configuration

|===
| Config name | Required | Description | Default

| mode | no | The mode configured for the InfluxDB sender. Possibilities are: http, tcp, udp, cloud | http
| host | yes | The host name of the InfluxDB instance. | -
| port | yes | The port number the InfluxDB instance is listening. | 8086
| protocol | no | The protocol the InfluxDB sender uses in http mode. | http
| auth | no | The authorization string to be used to connect to InfluxDB, of format username:password. If mode "cloud" is used, the token must be passed here| -
| prefix | no | The measurement prefix. | -
| database | no | The database name. | hivemq
| reportingInterval | no | The reporting interval in seconds. | 1
| connectTimeout | no | The connect and read timeout in seconds. | 5000
| tags | no | The tags for each metric. Listed as a semicolon ( `;` ) separated list. | -
| organization | only for mode: "cloud" | The organization to push data to | -
| bucket | only for mode: "cloud" | The bucket to push data to | -

|===


.Example Configuration
[source]
----
mode:http
host:localhost
port:8086
protocol:http
auth:

prefix:
database:hivemq

reportingInterval:1
connectTimeout:5000

tags:host=hivemq1
----

=== First Steps

==== Quick Start InfluxDB
If you don't already have an InfluxDB instance set up, here is a instruction how to start a not configured InfluxDB instance with Docker.

. Download and install {docker}[Docker^] for your platform
. Start an InfluxDB docker container with the command `docker run -p 8086:8086 -v $PWD:/var/lib/influxdb influxdb`. For more information about using InfluxDB with Docker visit the {influxdb-docker}[official Docker repository^] for InfluxDB
. A local instance of InfluxDB should be running with the port for the database set to 8086
. Create a database that matches the name set in the property `database` in `influxdb.properties`. For the default `database` value use the command `curl -G http://localhost:8086/query --data-urlencode "q=CREATE DATABASE hivemq"`
. Done

==== Usage
After the extension is installed and an InfluxDB instance exists.

. Start HiveMQ
. Extension successfully started if configuration file exists and contains required properties

==== Need help?

If you encounter any problems, we are happy to help. The best place to get in contact is our {hivemq-support}[support^].

= Contributing

If you want to contribute to HiveMQ InfluxDB Extension, see the link:CONTRIBUTING.md[contribution guidelines].

= License

HiveMQ InfluxDB Extension is licensed under the `APACHE LICENSE, VERSION 2.0`. A copy of the license can be found link:LICENSE.txt[here].
